# Project Reflection

## What advice would you give to yourself if you were to start a project like this again?
If I were to have a chance to redo the cs30 course and do this major project I would probably not choose this topic. Though I really like the idea, I think that it would have been nice if I could have made this project more visual but because it took so much time to get everything else working I never had time to make it look the way I wanted to. Another idea that I had along the way that is similar to the project that I did was to create a visual of a specific game, including the sun rising and setting, some trees, wind ect. 
If I were to redo this project and I had to stay with the same topic I would probably try to just focus on a few days of data, but getting the wntire days weather (gov.can has hourly weather data as well) and display how the weather changes throughout the day. 
Another idea that I just had that I think I would have enjoyed a lot more would have been to display the differnet months and seasons in a year. This would have been super cool to have a visual representation of seasons changing. I could make smaller animations for how the leaves fall off the trees, how snow falls, how plants grow etc.
Another piece of advice that I would give to myself would be to try to use more of the skills that we learned in CS30 in the project. Not only would have this made progress easier for me, but it would have also helped prepare me for the exam and given me a better understanding of the content overall. I think that for this project I should have focused a bit more on objects and more complex arrays.


## Did you complete everything in your "needs to have" list?
In the end, completing everything in my needs to have list turned out to be the easiest part of my project. I thought that extracting the files and writing the code for the data would be the most difficult but it turns out that I was wrong. I had the most trouble with the parts that were not on my needs to have list, but were still necessary in order to make the program work. I will talk about the most difficult parts in the next section.

## What was the hardest part of the project?
The hardest part of my project was using javascript. I was always very frustrated when certain built in functions should have worked bu didn't and I think that I spent about 70% of my coding time in trying to fix problems. Another hard part of my project was boredom with my topic. There was a point in my coding journey when I hadn't started working on the visual parts of my program yet and all of my time was spent creating functions and finding data. This part was difficult because I couldn't see any of the progress I was making and I wasn't sure where my code was heading. It felt like I had hit a wall and it wasn't until I spent almost an entire weekend with coding that I finally felt like I knew what I was doing and I could finally make progress that I was happy with.

## What did you learn?
Though I may have a few things that I would have done differently during my project, I am still glad that I did it because I learned a lot along the way. One of the first things that I learned was about how important it is to keep my code organized, always think before doing and always make sure that I know what I am trying to accomplish. When I didn't do any of these things I soon found myself in a sea of jibberish and I didn't even know what I was trying to do. 
I also learned not to worry too much if I feel that I cannot follow my original plan that I set. Even though I stuck to my to do list and general plan I still reaized that the original picture in my mind of what the final product was either unrealistic or did not match the rest of the coding that I was trying to do. I had to learn to be flexible while still following an end goal.
Overall I think that I learned a lot from this project, not just from a programming point of view, but also about skills and methods that I can use in other parts of my life.
